\section{Results}
\label{sec:results}

We organize the presentation of our findings by topic, including how users
\emph{perceive} (\Cref{sec:perception}), \emph{manage} (\Cref{sec:manage}), and
\emph{wish to improve} (\Cref{sec:improve}) onion services.  We interleave the
results from our online survey with our interviews, focusing primarily on our
survey data but bringing up anecdotes and findings from our interviews as
appropriate.

\subsection{User Perception of Onion Services}
\label{sec:perception}

\subsubsection{Mental Models of Onion Services}

Our participants perceived onion services' definition, the way they work, and
the content they host in many different ways and from different perspectives.
However, almost half of our interviewees (8/17) seemed confused about onion
services.  They were unsure how they function, how to describe them, and they
did not understand how onion services protect them.

Above all, according to the majority of our interviewees (9/17), onion services
enable the user to access Web content in an anonymous manner.  Moreover, three
interview participants stressed that such protection is not only for visitors
but also for people providing these services.  One of the interviewees was
particularly curious how OSs facilitate anonymous purchases and pointed out
usage of CryptoMoney as one of the characteristics of Onion Links:
\textquote[P11]{I was reading the other day about how to use some the Web to buy
things because I was interested to understand how you can do that, to buy like
abortion pills or things like that.}  Another two participants also mentioned
the possibility of participating in drug trade and credit card data sale.  Some
of our interviewees did not distinguish disguising their \textsc{ip} address
from disguising their real-world identity and instead used the umbrella term
``anonymity'' to refer to both concepts.  This conflation of concepts paints an
incomplete picture of the security and privacy guarantees that the Tor network
provides, further illustrated by one interview participant's question:
\textquote[P07]{What's the point of going to Facebook using onion services when
their business model is still about collecting your data?}

Six interviewees stated that onion services are related to extra layers of
protection, an idea that is well-illustrated in
\Cref{fig:os-sketch},\footnote{All sketches are available online at
\url{https://nymity.ch/onion-services/mental-models/}.} and further elaborated
on by participant P03: ``I think it's kind of to do with the different hops that
you build different layers of making it difficult to find out who this person
is.''
% ---Philipp: Not clear what the text below means, exactly.---
% It corresponds to the notion of protective feature of OS to which five
% interviewees related to when describing onion services.

\begin{figure}[t]
  \centering
  \includegraphics[width=0.8\linewidth]{figures/p03-os-sketch-kopia2.jpg}
  \caption{A sketch of interviewee P03's mental model of onion services.  The
  participant referred to several layers of protection.}
  \label{fig:os-sketch}
\end{figure}

% ---Philipp: I'm not sure if the text below is correct.---
Five interview participants saw the connection between Tor and onion services,
stating that OSs are to be accessed through Tor.  This differs from our one
participant who did not see a connection.

% ---Philipp: The text below is speculation and misleading.---
% While the participants that saw this connection between Tor and onion services
% stated that  onion  services are to be accessed through Tor, we can  see that
% this knowledge is not widespread, as evidenced by our findings in analyzing
% the root DNS data described in \Cref{sec:root-data}.
%
% We found 15,471 correctly-formatted onion domains\footnote{Note that these may
% not all correspond to real onion sites, as some-one could have entered a bogus
% onion domain name into a browser; unfortunately, there is no way for us to
% evaluate the validity of each onion domain.} in the dataset,  indicating that
% Internet users are attempting to visit an onion domain in a non-Tor browser.

Another interesting assumption was made by interview participant P07; they
claimed that OS ``[are] essentially the Tor project being able to make their
technology available to more commercial clients, having that option be available
to them.  For me, it's all about trying to scale what they're doing.'', thinking
about more economic traits of OS than other participants, whereas P08 considered
OS as ``Internet without hyperlinks.''

Four interviewees stated that OSs work in a similar manner to Tor but the same
four participants also thought that encryption is a little bit different than in
Tor, which we can see on \Cref{fig:toros-sketch}.  Furthermore, four
interviewees described the way of how OS work referring to the encryption of
data onto the end point and 3/17 to the fact that last point of the chain of the
encryption is an onion link. 

\begin{figure}[t]
        \centering
        \includegraphics[width=0.8\linewidth]{figures/P13bothSketches.jpg}
        \caption{Comparison of two sketches from interviewee P13.  The first
        sketch shows the P13's mental model of Tor and the second one P13's
        mental model of onion services.}
        \label{fig:toros-sketch}
\end{figure}

\subsubsection{The Puzzling Nature of Onion Services}

In our survey, we asked how safe our respondents feel when using Tor Browser and
onion services, respectively.  \Cref{fig:perceived-security} shows the results.
86\% of our survey respondents feel at least somewhat safe using Tor Browser as
compared to just over two thirds (67\%) of onion service users.

\begin{figure}[t]
    \centering
    \input{figures/perceived-security.tex}
    \caption{The level of safety our respondents perceive when using Tor
    Browser (\textsc{tb}) and onion services (\textsc{os}s).}
    \label{fig:perceived-security}
\end{figure}

Our survey responses indicated that our participants, many of whom were
non-experts, \adz{how many?} lacked the ability to evaluate (or even understand)
the Tor network's design which is why they defer to expert opinion, their gut
feeling, or the trust they place in Tor developers.  With respect to onion
services, the majority of survey respondents expressed that the added security
and anonymity makes them feel safe.  Another factor contributing to the
perceived security is that advertising companies are nowhere near as present on
onion services as they are on the Web.  Orthogonal to the technology, many
participants voiced concern about illegal and questionable content on onion
services, described by some as a ``Wild West.''  Phishing sites, honeypots, and
compromised onion sites further contribute to this perception.

Although our interviewees tended to see onion services as safer than
corresponding websites (eight versus four participants), six people stressed
that one needs to be careful when using onion services.  Five interviewees
expressed lack of trust towards OSs and one even frustration.  Two interviewees
mentioned that websites cannot identify you as the general advantage of onion
services but one of these participants plus two others pointed out that websites
actually can determine your identity if you write down your personal details as
well as if you log in into any private accounts while using OSs. Moreover, one
interview participant (P10) claimed that using onion links may influence the
usability of their ``normal'' corresponding websites---the person shared a story
in which they postulated that their Facebook account had been flagged for
suspicious activity and then was deactivated because they had logged in through
Tor Browser.  These interview participants did not realize that while the
company indeed knows who is logging in, it does not know Tor users' \textsc{ip}
address (and hence location) or operating system.  On top of that, onion
services provide end-to-end security and self-authenticating names.  Syverson
and Boyce took a step back and looked at how onion services can improve website
authentication~\cite{Syverson2015a}.  These benefits are difficult to convey to
non-technical users, and even experts sometimes advocate an ``all or nothing''
approach to online anonymity, overlooking important nuances.

% ---Philipp: the text below is misleading.  We have no idea if these domains
%  were typed by actual people---
% Another source of confusion was the domain format of onion services.  Of all
% unique .onion domains found in the root DNS data (22,966), about 33\% were an
% incorrect format; for example, \url{onion.onion} was found in the dataset, but
% is not a correctly formatted onion domain.

Additionally, some survey respondents commented on the onion domain format,
indicating that they believed the seemingly-random characters in onion domains
are the reason why onion services are anonymous:

\begin{displayquote}[Survey respondent]
\ldots onion services stay anonymous through changing their domain, and I
feel that there is a possibility of decreased anonymity with a constant domain
name.
\end{displayquote}

Accordingly, these users also believe that vanity domains are ``less anonymous''
because part of their domains is clearly not random.  A survey participant
further wrote: \textquote{I understand vanity onion domains are a sign of the
weakness of the hash algorithm used by the Tor network.}  An unrelated yet
equally incorrect opinion was voiced by a different survey respondent:
\textquote{These people who created their onion name using scallion or other
tools should notice that other people can make [the] same private key.}
Furthermore, five interviewees expressed a lack of trust towards OSs, like P06:
``I'm pretty distrusting with most of the content I access over onion services.
When I want content from a service, I tend to distrust it from the beginning.''
and one even frustration. On the other hand, four interviewees were content and
believed in the future of OSs, and two put trust in them.

Four interviewees perceived onion domains as too long.  Among these participant
was one who further complained about random characters in onion domains.  Two
interviewees criticized onion links for being hard to remember.  Moreover,
\textsc{url}s such as expyuzz4wqqyqhjn.onion and torproz4wqqyqhjn.onion were
harder for survey respondents to remember because they mention that ``numbers
make the names harder to remember.''  Other survey respondents stated that
vanity domains are easier to remember when they can be pronounced.  One survey
respondent described it saying \mc{need participant id} ``phonetic pronunciation
plays a large part in how I remember onions.'' Many other survey \adz{how many}
respondents stated that onion domains that are supported by a mnemonic are also
easier to remember.

What remains confusing is the terminology around onion services; one interviewee
referred to OSs as Dark Web while another one used hidden services.  We pointed
out in \Cref{sec:background} that The Tor Project only uses the term onion
services.

% ---Philipp: Not sure why the text below is in this section?---
% Another drawback of OS was identified in the latency and according to three
% participants the access time was too slow.

\subsubsection{Onion Services Are Versatile}

Our survey asked how often our respondents browse onion services.  The usage
frequency was almost uniformly distributed among our survey respondents; 24\%
use onion sites less than once a month, 22\% use them about monthly, 25\%
weekly, and 23\% daily.  The remaining 6\% has never used an onion service
before.  We also asked our interviewees if they had used OSs in the last three
months; seven had and seven had not, with four of the latter group claiming that
they had used onion services before, just not in the last three months.  Two
interviewees, however, had never used onion services before.

The majority of our survey participants used onion services because of the
additional anonymity (70\%) and the additional security (61\%) (see
\Cref{fig:onion-usage}).  Anonymity was also the main reason why our
interviewees used onion services (6/17).  Another reassuring factor for two of
our interviewees was the feeling of security and safety that onion services
provide.  Furthermore, two interview participants thought of OSs as ``harm
reduction technique.''  P10 explained that they prefer to use Facebook's onion
domain because it impedes tracking efforts.

Moreover, 61.8\% of our survey respondents had used onion services for purposes
other than Web browsing before.  Several protocols such as the chat application
Ricochet~\cite{ricochet} and the file sharing application
OnionShare~\cite{onionshare} were purpose-built on top of onion services while
existing \textsc{tcp}-based tools such as \textsc{ssh} can transparently use
onion addresses instead of traditional \textsc{ip} addresses.  Moreover, The
Pirate Bay (1), Ricochet (1), TorChat (1), OnionShare (1) as well as just Dark
Web (1) were all mentioned by interviewees as reasons for using OSs.  Almost one
third (29.7\%) of our survey participants used onion services for non-browsing
activities at least once a week. \mc{do we know what these were?}

Survey respondents who selected ``Other'' provided a variety of reasons, the
most predominant being the ability to set up a \textsc{tcp} service behind a
\textsc{nat} device.  That makes it possible to expose an \textsc{ssh} server in
a home network that has neither a permanent \textsc{ip} address nor port
forwarding.  Other survey respondents reported using onion services to reduce
the load on exit relays, to do technical research, and to access sites that are
otherwise unavailable.  We had two interviewees who experienced OSs only
indirectly---one set up onion services for others but does not browse them
themselves while another used them not only for his work but also because it was
his default set up.
% ---Philipp: The sentence above does not make sense.---

Several interviewees brought up task-oriented reasons for using onion services.
Five interviewees reported that they use onion services simply for their work
while four stated personal reasons, \eg, for a personal blog, or giving someone
access to their home network.  

Two interview participants used onion services for educational purposes.  P03 as
a teaching subject: ``I was teaching a class on internet technology and
regulations.  We were basically showing students how Tor works and part of what
I have to do as a teaching assistant was make students go and basically get to
the moment where they either hire a hitman, buy drugs, or buy weapons.  Just to
show that it's possible. And then obviously we didn't buy it.'' P05 used onion
services in the academic peer review process: ``I've only used it for submitting
academic papers.  A lot of times we want to submit some source code, or some
extra artifacts with it, but there's a problem if we host it on the university
site.  If one of the other reviewers connects to our university site, and we
have some sort of tracking information on there, we would be deanonymizing the
reviewer.  We put it on a Tor hidden service to make sure that the reviewer
remains blind in academic review process.''

For 46\% of survey respondents and three interviewees, onion services were the
only way to access content they enjoy, making the use of onion services a
necessity.  27\% of our survey respondents and two interviewees cited curiosity
as a reason to use onion services.  Moreover, two interviewees used OSs for fun
and social reasons---to ``toy around'' (P07) and also, as a way of spending time
with friends, as well as to ``show off'' around them.

Finally, 40\% of our survey respondents had once set up an onion service
sometime in the past.  Interestingly, 79\% of the survey respondents who had set
up onion services of their own had run their onion service for private use while
53\% had run them for the public. \Cref{fig:onion-operation-reasons} gives an
overview of the reasons our respondents have for running onion services.

\begin{figure}[t]
    \centering
    \input{figures/onion-usage.tex}
    \caption{Our respondents' (multiple choice) reasons for using onion
    services.}
    \label{fig:onion-usage}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}[t]
    \centering
    \input{figures/onion-operation-reasons.tex}
    \caption{The (multiple-choice) reasons our respondents have for running
    onion services.}
    \label{fig:onion-operation-reasons}
\end{figure}

\subsection{Onion Service Discovery and Management}
\label{sec:manage}

\subsubsection{Onion Links Usually Discovered on Social Media, on the Web, Via Search Engines But Also By Chance}

Recall that a freshly set up onion service is private by default, leaving it up
to its operator to disseminate the domain.  Established search engines such as
Google are therefore generally inadequate to find content on onion services.  So
how does one discover onion services?  \Cref{fig:onion-discovery} illustrates
the results of our survey.  The three most popular ways survey participants
discover onion sites with, all approximating 50\%, were via \first~social
networking sites such as Twitter and Reddit, \second~search engines such as
Ahmia,\footnote{Ahmia.fi is an onion site search engine that crawls
user-submitted onion domains.  It publishes the list of all indexed onion
services at \url{https://ahmia.fi/onions/}.} and \third~randomly encountering
links when browsing the Web.  We observed similar patterns in our interview
respondents.  We categorized them in word of mouth (6), using a search engine
tool (5) including tools like duckduckgo (1), .go (1), The Pirate Bay (1),
Reddit (1), ahmia.fi (1), onion wictionary (2) and search widget in the Tor
browser (1).  Six of our participants were more likely to look for onion
services passively, so they just happened to hear or know about specific onion
services while five of them looked actively for onion links, browsing for the
content they needed.
% ---Philipp: What's .go and onion witionary?---

A significantly less popular discovery mechanism was through friends and family,
which has the advantage that domains come from a trusted source.  \adz{how
many?}  Finally, 19\% of survey respondents occasionally stumbled upon links to
onion services in their day-to-day browsing activity, while a mere 4\% of our
survey respondents indicated that they were not interested in learning about new
onion services.  Similarly, two interviewees claimed that they never searched
for new onion links.  Respondents who selected ``Other'' predominantly brought
up independently-maintained onion domain aggregators.  A noteworthy example is
the Hidden Wiki, a community-curated and frequently-forked wiki that contains
categorized links to onion services.
% ---Philipp: I don't understand the meaning of the sentence below.---
% As a further matter, two interview participants reported they would look up
% for them also through public Internet and two would find them via other onion
% websites.

\begin{figure}[t]
    \centering
    \input{figures/onion-discovery.tex}
    \caption{Our respondents' (multiple choice) methods of discovering onion
    services.}
    \label{fig:onion-discovery}
\end{figure}

The majority of our survey respondents (60\%) reported that they were satisfied
with how they discover onion services but a significant proportion (40\%) were
not. Those satisfied reported that they have no interest in learning about new
onion services, in part because they only use a small set of onion services.

\begin{figure}[t]
    \centering
    \input{figures/onion-domain-mgmt.tex}
    \caption{The strategies that our respondents use to handle onion domains.
    More than half use bookmarks inside of Tor Browser and a quarter thinks that
    there is no good solution.}
    \label{fig:onion-domain-mgmt}
\end{figure}

\subsubsection{Saving and Tracking Onion Links Is Not Straightforward}

While conventional domains are designed to be easy to remember and recognize, we
wanted to know how users handle randomly-generated onion domains. Most survey
respondents use Tor Browser's bookmarks to save onion domains as seen in
\Cref{fig:onion-domain-mgmt}. Additionally, same tactic used two interview
participants.   While convenient, this method of saving onion links leaves a
trace of (presumably) visited sites on somebody's computer.  One of Tor
Browser's security requirements is ``disk avoidance,'' \ie, the browser must not
write anything to disk that would reveal the user's browsing
history~\cite[\S~2.1]{Perry2017a}.  Bookmarking links is a violation of this
security requirement albeit requested by the user.  Many of our survey
respondents were aware of this issue, and about a dozen survey respondents who
selected ``Other'' stated that they store onion domains in an encrypted
manner---either in a text file or in their password manager.  Somewhat less
popular amongst our survey participants was saving onion domains in local text
files (36\%), getting them from trusted websites (34\%), using search engines
(18\%), memorizing domains (16\%), using some other techniques (9\%), or
employing pen and paper (8\%).  When it comes to our interviewees, it seemed
that they liked the old fashioned way the most for keeping track on onion links
- 4 reported that they keep them simply as a list and a note, furthermore 3 use
their memory as storage place, simply remembering the addresses. Apart from
these, one interviewee used his Twitter feed and another Tor chat as storage
places. Moreover one interviewee stated that Tor browser remembers the links and
another interview participant (P01) explained: ``The onion services we run
professionally we keep track of because we operate the server, so that's easy.''
Notably, one quarter of our survey respondents did not have a good solution to
the problem of tracking onion links and  two interviewees admitted that they did
not have any storage system for Onion links.  Given the alarming number of
(possibly insecure) home-baked solutions, a Tor Browser extension that solves
this problem seems warranted.

Of the survey respondents who memorize onion domains, we found that most
respondents memorize one to four onion domains (35\% of total respondents) but
only 1\% are able to memorize more than four domains.   Survey respondents
memorized domains \first~automatically start to memorize domains because of
typing it many times (60\%) \second~to allow them to open the site more quickly
(51\%), and \third~to ensure that they are visiting the correct site and not a
phishing site (44\%). Others were privacy conscious because as mentioned above,
bookmarking onion domains leaves a trace. These 28\% of survey respondents said
they memorized onion domains to prevent this digital trace.

The majority of our survey respondents appreciated vanity domains because they
were easy to remember (64\%) and easy to recognize (64\%), and they provided a
unique ``branding'' (34\%).  Some survey respondents indicated that a vanity
prefix---like a traditional domain---informs about an onion service's content,
letting visitors know what to expect and thus preventing unpleasant surprises.
Only 8\% disliked vanity onion domains, and 15\% did not have an opinion.  We
asked survey respondents about whether or not they memorize vanity
domains---specifically facebookcorewwwi.onion---and how difficult they find it
to memorize onion domains of differing levels of vanity.  59\% of respondents
replied that facebookcorewwwi.onion is among the sites that they have memorized.
This is \mc{what are the participant or survey respondent ids for the quotes}
because it is ``easy to memorize'' and ``after seeing [it] many times, I
automatically start to memorize it.'' Depending on the format of the vanity
domain, our survey respondents expressed differing levels of ease for memorizing
them; these results are shown in \Cref{fig:memorize-domains}.

\begin{figure}[t]
    \centering
    \input{figures/onion-memorize-difficulty.tex}
    \caption{The difficulty our respondents would expect to face when trying to
    memorize four onion domains.}
    \label{fig:memorize-domains}
\end{figure}

From another perspective, it is interesting how our participants actually
entered onion links. The most often mentioned technique for going to onion
websites was copy and paste, used by 4 interviewees. Another simple, yet used by
3 interviewees, technique was going via direct links.  Also, two interview
participants would go to onion websites through their bookmarks and two via
Google. One interview participant said that he typed the links from the notes.

\subsubsection{Onion Links and Sites Are Hard to Verify as Authentic}

We asked our survey respondents if they ever thought about the authenticity of
an onion site.  The majority of our survey respondents (80\%) did want to verify
an onion service as authentic.  \Cref{fig:determining-legitimacy} gives an
overview of the strategies that our respondents employ.  More than half of our
survey participants either consulted trusted sources (\eg, friends or another,
trusted website) or used bookmarks when revisiting onion services.  Many
respondents also verified the domain in the browser's address bar (46\%),
checked if the corresponding website had a link to its onion site (41\%), or
check that the onion service had an \textsc{https} certificate
(36\%).\footnote{DigiCert is issuing \textsc{ev} certificates for onion
sites~\cite{DigiCert2015a}, but adoption has been slow---presumably in part
because \textsc{ev} certificates require the \textsc{ca} to verify the
applicant's identity and they are not free.}  Alarmingly, almost 30\% of survey
respondents stated that they sometimes could not tell the difference between an
authentic service and an impersonation, and 11\% never checked a service's
legitimacy in the first place.  Survey participants who selected ``Other''
provided a wide variety of ad-hoc phishing protections, some of which were
clearly misguided, \mc{whats an example? and why was it misguided} further
highlighting the importance of being able to verify a site as being the one that
they were trying to reach.

When asked how many characters our respondents verify in onion domains,  43\%
verified thirteen to sixteen digits, \ie, (almost) the full domain, while 46\%
verified up to nine digits, which is within the realm of brute force attacks.

\begin{figure}[t]
    \centering
    \input{figures/determining-legitimacy.tex}
    \caption{How our respondents determine an onion service's legitimacy.}
    \label{fig:determining-legitimacy}
\end{figure}


We also asked our interview participants how they knew that the websites they
went to were actually the ones that they wanted to go to.  We observed mainly
two different patterns---when people relied on someone else and when they tried
to work this out on their own. Starting from the first group, the biggest number
of interviewees responded that their main strategy for verification of onion
links was word of mouth (5) and assistance of someone else while using OS (4) as
P03 admitted ``(I) Let people show me them. I don't go there myself.''  Also two
interview participants relied on trusted resources and two entered OS via their
corresponding websites as a way of protection. One of the most often (3
interviewees) approach taken in the second category, was simply checking and
comparing URLs to see whether they matched to ``clear net site'' (P14).
Furthermore, two interview participants depend on their own experience, one on
http certificate, another one would lower the security settings in order to
check the website. There was one interviewee who believed that just using Tor is
verification itself and from the other hand, there was one interview participant
who simply avoided onion pages.

Our interviewees listed many different strategies which they used to verify the
authenticity of Onion links but the biggest number of them (6) stated that they
don't know how to do that and ``That's the whole problem'' (P03). Moreover, two
interviewees thought it is not even possible.

\subsection{Onion Service Issues \& Improvements}
\label{sec:improve}

\subsubsection{Vanity Domains vs. Phishing Attacks}

The majority of our interview participants (9/17) agreed on the fact that there
is a big likelihood of phishing attacks, one of them explained the phenomenon
this way: ``the two approaches I know from the normal Web still apply here,
which is typo-squatting, registering an .onion that's only a slight variation
away, or bit-squatting, which is slightly different, but it involves a single or
a few bit flips within an .onion address, so that it looks relatively similar.''
(P06), while another interview participant showed his solution for this problem:
``If you're manually typing it in I suppose they could be a problem, but I
primarily cut and paste.'' (P25). In three interviewees the anonymous character
of OS raised doubt over their security.

Phishing remains an issue despite onion services' extra anonymity and security
properties.  Past work has documented phishing onion sites that transparently
rewrote Bitcoin addresses to hijack Bitcoin
transactions~\cite{Winter2016a,Nurmi2015a,Monteiro2016a}.  Key to this attack is
the difficulty of telling apart an authentic onion domain from an impersonation.
For conventional domains we rely on (\textsc{ev}) certificates, browser
protections, search results, and long-lived reputation, but none of these
methods have matured for onion services.  Does the nature of onion services
facilitate phishing attacks?  If so, what can we do to mitigate the issue?

Ten out of 17 interviewees found the idea of vanity domains as the big usability
improvement: ``In terms of mnemonics and easier recollection if you can chunk
words that are associated with daily life and not just a random. If there's
entropy in the stream, there's no way I'm going to remember that more than a few
characters.'' (P18) and from different perspective, P10 thought of vanity
domains as a sort of mapping tool that makes you feel safer and more protected:
``I think that for people who don't spend a lot of time using those types of
services, it definitely gives you a more familiar framework for thinking about
where you are on the Internet. If people think ... people have a pretty strange
geographic metaphors for navigating the internet, but I think this idea of where
are you? Well, I'm at this place I can't even name, I can't say it out loud, I
think that can be a barrier for people.'' While 1 person, P26, did not find
vanity domains practical and seemed to distrust them: ``I don't think it's
useful because, you know, only the first ... only some character and it's
followed by another random word, so I don't think it's very useful. And phishing
can still copy that. They can use more similar upper. I think this not valuable
because I think phishing can use a combination (...) I don't think what I can
remember is safe now. Even I don't know what my password is or my e-mail is.''
Interestingly, some \adz{how many} survey respondents consider vanity domains
economically unfair because wealthy entities can afford to generate longer
prefixes such as Facebook \mc{explain why in related work}.


What is more interesting, the problem of phishing attacks, that lays in mistyped
variation of the real address, and thinking of and proposing vanity domains as
possible improvement generates another problem that 8 of our interview
participants saw: such improvement could multiple phishing attacks. As P13
elaborated: ``I think in theory, on the one, it makes it easier for you to
recognize where you are, it makes it easier for you to perhaps, share the URL or
type it out. On the other hand, I've seen concerns that, by having a vanity URL
where perhaps people only look for the Facebook portion and they don't pay
attention to what comes after it could potentially make it easier to exploit
unsuspecting users. Send them a link that also says Facebook but the numbers
after it are different, but you just see the Facebook part and go, ``It's fine,
it's Facebook.'' That can be a risk to them.''  In addition, P05 simply
explained:  ``It seems like it would encourage more trust on behalf of the user,
but then again, maybe make phishing easier too, if phishers are making vanity
domains themselves. Yeah, that seems like it could go both ways actually.''
Furthermore, one interviewee expressed his concern about onion vanity domains
saying that he ``wouldn't use it for fun'' (P02).  Among our survey respondents
there was concern that the short and recognizable prefixes tempt users to only
verify the prefix and ignore subsequent characters.  One survey respondent
reported that \textquote{I only memorize the first part of the domain.} \mc{need
participant id} while another wrote:

\mc{need participant id}
\begin{displayquote}[Survey respondent]
If there isn't some cognizable word at the start, it'll be more difficult for me
to determine if I'm going to the correct domain or a scam. I may end up going to
less .onion sites as a result.
\end{displayquote}

Focusing only on the vanity part of a domain allows attackers to create an
impersonation domain that features the original's prefix but differs in
subsequent characters.  Nurmi~\cite{Nurmi2015a} and
Monteiro~\cite{Monteiro2016a} have both documented such an attack, but its
effectiveness is not known.

Based on the root DNS dataset, we evaluated how often two different onion
domains are extremely similar to one another; this evaluation can potentially
shed light on how often an onion domain may be phished.  We first extracted all
correctly-formatted onion domains from the dataset and then computed a
similarity metric between each unique pair of onion domains.  Using the
Jaro-Winkler string similarity metric, which is the edit distance between two
strings and gives more weight to strings with common prefixes, we assign a
similarity value between \[0,1\], where 0 represents completely different
strings and 1 represents matching strings, to each unique domain pair. We use
this metric because people tend to check the first part of the domain as opposed
to the last part.  Our results show that .007\% (8,672) of all unique domain
pairs (119,668,185) have an extremely high similarity ($> .90$); for example,
\url{bitfog2jzic5tnh7.onion} and \url{bitfog2y7y2pfv75.onion} have a similarity
of .917.

Moreover, 6 interviewees reported that one of their issues is correct webpage
dilemma---you can never be sure whether you are on the right website, three
reported that .onion links are easy to mistype and also, one interview
participant noticed that onion URL changes randomly. All of these problems led
to proposed improvements like stable pattern of words or numbers in URL (3/17)
to make it more readable and one interviewee suggested that the URL should be
composed without numbers, only with letters - which corresponds to complaint of
survey respondents mentioned in \Cref{sec:perception}.

\subsubsection{Onion Services Operations}

We asked our survey respondents if they had ever set up their own onion site and
the issues they faced as reported in \Cref{fig:onion-operation-concerns}.  We
asked about three potential attacks on onion services; \first~somebody setting
up a phishing site for the operator's site, \second~a denial-of-service attack,
and \third~a deanonymization attack.  More than half of our survey respondents
who operated an onion service were at least somewhat concerned about all of
these attacks.  Almost 40\% of survey respondents claimed to be extremely
concerned about somebody deanonymizing their onion service.  Indeed, many survey
respondents lamented the difficulty of protecting onion services from
application-layer deanonymization attacks.  Matic \ea\ demonstrated some of
these issues in 2015~\cite{Matic2015a}.

\begin{figure}[t]
    \centering
    \input{figures/onion-operation-concerns.tex}
    \caption{The level of concern onion service operators have with respect to a
    phishing clone of their service, denial-of-service attacks, and
    deanonymization.}
    \label{fig:onion-operation-concerns}
\end{figure}

One of our interviewee, P16, explained encryption technology issues, his wish to
secure his content but also his positive attitude towards the future of onion
services: ``As far as other websites, I do have some sites that I want to run,
but I'm just waiting for the encryption technology to become better, and I don't
think we're that far off it, as in we're talking months. (\ldots) another thing
about onion services, is whether or not those hosts are actually encrypted, and
that the data that you actually post on those things is also encrypted, so if
they are actually taken down by third parties for whatever reason, that you can
say, "Well it doesn't matter the site's gone, but my stuff's pretty much safe,
because I have my own key.''

Another problems that our interview participants listed were browser
fingerprinting (2), as well as changing domain problem, when one site is taken
down and its domain is changed it is hard to find it (1). There was also one
interviewee who claimed that his problem lies in remembering where the exact
domain was but one person saw no domain format problems. Furthermore,
participant P01 had a problem with a Firefox  browser regarding onion links---it
did not recognize .onion domains as being secure. 

Interestingly, most (83\%) of our survey participants did not expect the
next-generation domain format to change their browsing habits because they treat
onion domains as opaque identifiers and handle these links via tools such as
bookmarks.  For the 17\% who expressed concern over the next generation domain
format \mc{can we define what this is?}, they felt that they would no longer be
able to memorize even the small number of onion domains (such as Facebook's)
that they used.  This suggests that although onion links are difficult to
handle, usability may not worsen with the new domain format.

\subsubsection{User Experience Design}

Many survey respondents had performance concerns when it comes to onion
services. \mc{need participant id}  One survey user stated, ``I would always
prefer the onion site, but for video sites like YouTube I would likely often use
the normal site to be able to get a higher quality stream due to higher
bandwidth.'' Another drawback of OS was identified in the latency and according
to 3 interview participants the access time was too slow. 

Other survey respondents mentioned not wanting to log in to onion sites because
they believe it defeats the purpose by revealing private data---a fallacy that
we discussed in \Cref{sec:perception}.  Our interviewees mentioned a lot
technical improvements that they would like to see. Four of them put the
emphasis on importance of creating valid search engine type tool, while two
interviewees would like to see safe bookmarking tool.  Three interviewees wanted
CAPTCHAs to be gone and one interview participant wanted login facility as well
as to see some authentication to be added to onion sites. 

Moreover, another interviewee thought that OS should be safer but they should
preserve anonymity at the same time. When it come to anonymity, participants
listed such possible improvements as anonymous video calls (1), email (1) and
file sharing (1). Two interview participants mentioned that faster access time
to websites would be a feature they would like to see. From a different
perspective, two interviewees wished there would be a way to automatically
redirect to onion services while using Tor and furthermore, one person thought
that there should be auto-redirect to Tor, whenever typing onion links, even in
a different browser. In addition to that, we asked survey respondents if they
would want Tor Browser to automatically redirect them from a normal website to
its corresponding onion site (\eg, from facebook.com to facebookcorewwwi.onion).
Survey respondents were largely in favor of this feature:37.78\% said they would
always use it, 34.91\% said they would use it for some sites, 15.61\% said they
would never use that feature,   and 11.70\% chose ``Other.'' Survey respondents
reported that they liked the convenience of being redirected.  The naysayers
were quite passionate, though, and they were concerned about potential security
issues. One respondent said, \mc{participant id needed} \textquote{What's to
stop them from man in the middle'ing me, either by choice, at the behest of some
nefarious entity, or after being hacked?} We conclude that there is clear
interest in such an ``upgrade'' feature provided that it is carefully designed
and offers users an option to control the process on a per-site basis.

\subsubsection{Education, Accessibility \& Knowledge}

One of the biggest issues for participants was the fact that onion sites are
hard to find (5/17): ``In my line of work, people talk about, `You can get all
sorts of things on the Dark Web. There's all sorts of things, marketplaces where
things are bought and sold or all sorts of information you can find'.'' But
unless you know, if I want to find out, what are all of the forums where people
sell credit card data? I would have to rely on someone who has previously
collated the directory of that sort of stuff. I think that would be the main
thought I'd have is how do you discover that? How do you find stuff if you don't
know what you're looking for or only have a vague idea? (P13) and for one
interviewee onion links were also hard to share.  In addition to that, one
participant wished to be able to find Onion Links through ``normal'' browsers.

Among the survey respondents who were not satisfied with how they discover onion
services (40\%), the most prominent complaint was about link rot on aggregators.
There is significant churn among onion sites, and our respondents were
frustrated that aggregators are typically not curated and therefore link to
numerous dead domains.  The lack of curation also leads to these aggregators'
containing the occasional scam and phishing site.  The difficulty of telling
apart two given onion domain names exacerbates this issue for users.  Another
common wish for aggregators was for them to be more verbose in their description
of onion sites.  In particular, some survey respondents wanted to avoid illegal
and pornographic content, which is often difficult if the description is vague
and the onion domain reveals nothing about its content.  Many survey respondents
were not aware of search engines such as Ahmia.  Among those survey respondents
that were aware of such engines, many were dissatisfied with both the search
results and the number of indexed onion sites.  Unsurprisingly, a ``Google for
onion sites'' was a frequent wish.

Moreover, 7 interviewees wished that OS would be simply more accessible for
everybody, not only in work but also in every other aspect of our lives, for
example in having an access to social media or even planning a wedding with
friends on Signal - P10 elaborated: ``A lot of it is about adoption. I feel like
it's important to normalize the use of these tools outside of this world to
people and just to sort of, in groups of friends or colleagues or whatever (...)
Communication is not always top secret and hardcore, sometimes it's fun. If
people are doing their fun communication one place and their serious
communication in another, then there's lots of security problems with that.'' 

We also asked our survey respondents if they would prefer onion versions of
popular websites such as YouTube, Twitter, or Amazon to their normal websites.
49.07\% of survey respondents said they would always prefer the onion site,
30.72\% chose ``Other'' and 20.21\% of respondents said they would always prefer
the normal website. As a further matter, 3 interviewees wished to see big
popular domains having OS, which P06 explained and brought up different aspect
of such change: ``I think a lot of people would enjoy being more anonymous in
some of those spaces. I also think that would have an effect on the culture of
those spaces, and it would change. That's not necessarily a good or bad thing,
it's just that you behave differently in a space where everyone is anonymous, or
if everyone's not anonymous. But in mixed spaces, where some people are and some
people aren't, there are some interesting culture clashes.'', but also, one
interviewee thought that not only big domains, but every website should have its
correspondent onion site. In addition, any survey respondents expressed
frustration about the difficulty of finding out if a particular website, such as
``example.com'' has a corresponding onion service.  A common wish was to have a
website list its onion service prominently in a footer.  Ironically, some survey
respondents were surprised that torproject.org has a corresponding onion
site---they could not find it on the website.

 On the other hand, one person wished to see more ``practical'' for general
 public related content rather than Facebook; websites that would be safe for
 example for activists to use or ``For instance, any kind of website that gives
 Chinese dissidents access to information about how to go around a firewall.
 Much more applied, like that.'' (P07)

Finally, the possible improvement that was mentioned most often by our
participants was education about onion services (7/17). Our interviewees seemed
concern about not enough resources that they could find to learn how to use OS
in secure way and even know what OS are. Furthermore, as P07 pointed out, OS are
not as popular as they could be: ``I think usability is one part. I think. I'm
not so much concerned, actually, about the onion services being improved, 'cause
I think you guys do a very good job. My concern is more about getting this out
to people who aren't in this space, communicating what that is, making sure that
there's more uptake of it.'' Some wanted to know how to use onion service
correctly and stop being uncertain about its properties: ``Like really clear
user education in the installation process would be great for people like me and
for people [...] like me, who are like ``Okay, this is a thing I can use, why am
I using it again? What am I using it for? What does it do?'' And why would it
potentially even be breaking these other apps. I'm I being watched and now my
phone is being destroyed. Or is it like a simple technical problem, that can be
overcome? (P08). One of our interviewee thought that bulletin would be a good
idea, while 2 thought that there should be some websites that would help and
inform people about usage of OS---also, according to one interview participant,
the fact that there was no support center was a big problem related to OS.  The
lack of proper education accompanies by a phenomenon, which 3 of our
participants called ``cultural mysticism''. Since people do not have extended
(and sometime even little) knowledge about OS, they tend to misinterpret some
information about them, as P10 explained: ``the perception that these are
hardcore security tools sometimes signals to ordinary users that they are also
difficult or badly designed or complicated to use, and that's not really the
case with Tor,'' but also they may be even afraid to use them, as P08's opinion
mentioned before: Because it's also super scary. Like you think you're playing
with this spy thing [...] Sometimes it's actually a really simple technical
thing that's not terrifying. And to like demystify those kind of things would be
really nice.'' This also led to suggested improvement to have directory ordered
by categories that would make usage of OS simpler (3/17) since there was also
one interviewee who wished that OS would be easier to use. Moreover, one
interviewee proposed warnings to alert when something goes wrong, for example
the site that one would like to enter might deanonymize the user. Also, there
was one interviewee who felt under qualified to answer what kind of improvements
he would like to see in OS.
